Hey everyone, welcome. I'm here to talk
about everyone's uh favorite subject,
vibe coding. Uh and somewhat uh controversially,
how to vibe code in prod responsibly. So let's
uh let's talk about vibe coding and like
uh what this even is. So first of all,
I'm Eric. I'm a researcher at Enthropic uh focused
on coding agents. Uh I was the author along with
Barry Zang of building effective agents where we
outlined uh for all of you our best science and
best practices for creating agents no matter
what the application is. Uh this is a subject
that's near and dear to my heart. Uh last year I
actually broke my hand while biking to work and
was in a cast for two months and Claude wrote all
of my code for those two months. And so figuring
out how to make this happen effectively uh was
really important to me and I was luckily able to
figure that out well and sort of help u bring that
into a lot of anthropics other products and in our
models through my research. So let's first start
talking about what is vibe coding. A lot of people
really conflate vibe coding with just extensive
use of AI to generate your code. But I think
this isn't quite true. A lot of people, you know,
they're using cursor, they're using co-pilot. Um,
it's a lot of AI and a lot of the code is coming
from the AI rather than them writing itself. But I
think when you are still in a tight feedback loop
with the model like that, that isn't truly vibe
coding. When I say vibe coding, I think we need
to go to Andre Carpathy's definition where vibe
coding is where you fully give into the vibes,
embrace exponentials, and forget that the code
even exists. I think the key part here is forget
the code even exists. And now the reason this is
important is that vibe coding was when people
outside of the engineering uh industry really
started getting excited about code generation.
Copilot and cursor were great but only sort of for
uh engineers but someone that didn't know how to
code uh suddenly with vibe coding they could find
themselves coding an entire app by themselves.
And this was a really exciting thing and a big
unlock to a lot of people. Now, of course, uh
there were a lot of downsides of this and you
had people coding for the first time and really
without knowing what they were doing at all. Um
and you said, "Hey, you know, random things
are happening, max out usage on my API keys,
people are bypassing the subscription, creating
random [__] on the DB." Uh, and so, you know,
this this is kind of the downside of vibe coding
of what started happening. And the positive sides
of vibe coding that you'd see were all things
that were really kind of low stakes. It was
people building video games, building sort of fun
side projects, things where uh it's okay if there
was a bug. So, you know, why do we even care about
vibe coding if it seems like something where the
stakes are really high if you do it for a real
product? And the most successful cases of it are
kind of these toy examples or fun things where
the stakes are very low. And my answer for why
we should care about vibe coding is because of the
exponential. The length of tasks that AI can do is
doubling every seven months. Right now we're at
about an hour. And that's fine. You don't need to
vibe code. You can have cursor work for you. You
can have clawed code write a feature that would
take an hour. Um, and you can review all that code
and you can be still be intimately involved uh,
as the AI is writing a lot of your code. But
what happens next year? What happens the year
after that? When the AI is powerful enough that
it can be generating an entire day's worth of
work for you at a time or an entire week's worth
of work, there is no way that we're going to be
able to keep up with that if we still need to move
in log stack. lock step. And that means that if we
want to take advantage of this exponential, we
are going to have to find a way to responsibly
give into this and find some way to leverage this
task. Um, I think my favorite analogy here is like
compilers. I'm sure in the early day of compilers,
a lot of developers, you know, really didn't trust
them. They might use a compiler, but they'd still
read the assembly that it would output to make
sure it looks, you know, how they would write the
assembly. But that just doesn't scale. You know,
at a certain point, you start needing to work on
systems that are big enough that you just have
to trust the system. The question though is how
do you do that responsibly? And I think sort of
my challenge to the whole software industry
over the next few years is how will we vibe
code in prod and do it safely? And my answer
to that is that we will forget that the code
exists but not that the product exists. Thinking
again to that compiler analogy, you know, we all
still know that there's assembly under the hood,
but hopefully most of us don't need to really
think about what the assembly actually is. But we
still, you know, are able to build good software
without understanding that assembly under the
hood. And I think that we will get to that same
level with software. And one thing I really want
to emphasize is that this is not a new problem.
How does a CTO manage an expert in a domain where
the CTO does not is not themselves an expert? How
does a PM review an engineering feature when they
themselves can't read all the code that went into
it? Or how does a CEO check the accountant's
work when they themselves are not an expert
in financial accounting? And these are all, you
know, problems that have existed for hundreds or
thousands of years and we have solutions to
them. A CTO can still write acceptance tests
uh for an expert uh that works for them even if
they don't understand the implementation under
the hood. They can see that these acceptance tests
pass and that the work is high quality. A product
manager can use the product that their engineering
team built and make sure that it works the way
they expected uh even if they're not writing
the code. And a CEO can spot check key facts
that they do understand and slices of the data
so that they can build confidence in the overall
financial model even though they themselves might
not be an expert in how the entire thing flows.
And so thinking about these examples u managing
implementations that you yourself don't understand
is actually a problem as old as civilization. And
every manager in the world is actually already
dealing with this. Just we as software engineers
are not used to this. We are used to being purely
individual contributors where we understand
the full depth down to the stack. But that's
something that in order to become most productive,
we are going to need to let go of in the way that
every manager in order to be most productive is
going to need to let go of some details. And just
like us as software engineers, you know, we let
go of some of the details of like understanding
the assembly itself that's happening under the
hood. And the way that you do this while still
being safe and being responsible is to find an
abstraction layer that you can verify even without
knowing the implementation underneath it. Now I
have one caveat to that today which is tech debt.
So right now there is not a good way to uh measure
or validate tech debt without reading the code
yourself. Most other systems in life you know
like the accountant example uh the PM uh you know
you have ways to verify the things you care about
without knowing the implementation. Tech I think
is one of those rare things where there really
isn't a good way to validate it other than being
an expert in the implementation itself. So that is
the one thing that right now we do not have a good
way to validate. However, that doesn't mean that
we can't do this at all. It just means we need to
be very smart and targeted where aware of where
we can uh take advantage of coding. My answer to
this is to focus on leaf nodes in our codebase.
And what I mean by that is parts of the code and
parts of our system that uh nothing depends on
them. they are kind of the end feature. They're
the end beller whistle. Um rather than things that
are the branch or trunks beneath them like here
in white. Uh here the orange dots are all these
leaf nodes where honestly if you have a system
like this it's kind of okay if there is tectet in
these leaf nodes because nothing else depends on
them. They're unlikely to change. they're unlikely
to have further things built on them versus the
things that are in white here, the trunks and the
underlying branches of your system. That is the
core architecture that we as engineers still need
to deeply understand because that's what's going
to change. That's what other things are going
to be built on and it's very important that
we protect those and make sure that they stay
extensible uh and understandable and flexible.
Now the one thing I will say here is that the
models are getting better all the time and so
we might get to a world where you know this gets
further and further down where we trust the models
more and more to write code um that is extensible
and doesn't have tech debt. Um using uh you know
the clawed 4 models uh over the last week or two
within anthropic has been a really exciting thing
and I've I've given them much more trust uh than I
did with uh 3.7. Um, so I think that this is going
to change and sort of more and more of the stack
we will be able to work with in this way. So let's
talk about how to succeed at vibe coding. And my
uh main advice here is ask not what Claude can do
for you but what you can do for Claude. I think
when you're vibe coding you are basically acting
as a product manager for Claude. So you need to
think like a product manager. What guidance or
context would a new employee on your team need to
succeed at this task? I think a lot of times we're
too used to doing sort of a very quick back
and forth chat with AI of make this feature,
fix this bug, but a human if you know if it was
their first day on the job uh and you just said,
"Hey, implement you know this feature," there's no
way you'd expect them to actually succeed at that.
You need to give them a tour of the codebase. You
need to tell them what are the actual requirements
and specifications and constraints that they need
to understand. And I think that as we vibe code,
that becomes our responsibility to feed that
information into Claude to make sure that it has
all of that same context and is set up to succeed.
When I'm working on features with Claude, I often
spend 15 or 20 minutes collecting guidance into a
single prompt and then let Claude cook after that.
And that 15 or 20 minutes isn't just me, you
know, writing the prompt by hand. This is often
a separate conversation where I'm talking back and
forth with Claude. It's exploring the codebase.
It's looking for files. We're building a plan
together that captures the essence of what I want,
what files are going to need to be changed, what
patterns in the codebase should it follow. And
once I have that artifact, that all of that
information, then I give it to Claude, either
in a new context or say, "Hey, let's go execute
this plan." And I've typically seen once I put
that effort into collecting all that information,
Claude has a very, very high success rate uh of
being able to complete something in a very good
way. And the other thing I'll say here is that
you need to be able to ask the right questions.
And uh despite the title uh of my of my talk,
I don't think that vibe coding and prod is for
everybody. I don't think that people that are
fully non-technical should go and try to build
a business fully from scratch. I think that is
dangerous uh because they're not able to ask
the right questions. They're not able to be an
effective product manager for Claude when they
do that and so they're not going to succeed.
We recently merged a 22,000line change to our
production reinforcement learning codebase
that was written heavily by Claude. So how on
earth did we do this responsibly? Uh and yes,
this is the actual screenshot of like the diff uh
from GitHub for the PR. Um the first thing is we,
you know, asked what we could do for Claude. This
wasn't just a single prompt that we then merged.
There was still days of human work that went
into this of coming up with the requirements,
guiding Claude and figuring out what the system
should be. And we really really embraced our roles
as the product manager for Claude uh in this
feature. The change was largely concentrated
in leaf nodes in our codebase where we knew it
was okay for there to be some tech debt because
we didn't expect these parts of the codebase to
need to change in the near future. And the parts
of it that we did think were important that would
need to be extensible, we did heavy human review
of those parts. And lastly, we carefully designed
stress tests for stability. Uh, and we designed
the whole system so that it would have uh very
easily human verifiable inputs and outputs. And
what that let us do these last two pieces is it
let us create these sort of verifiable checkpoints
so that we could make sure that this was correct
even without understanding or reading the full
underlying implementation. Our biggest concern
was stability and we were able to measure that
even without reading the code by creating these
stress tests and running them for long durations.
Uh and we were able to verify correctness based
on the input and outputs of the system that we
designed it to have. So basically we designed
this system to be understandable and verifiable
even without without us reading all the code. And
so ultimately by combining those things we were
able to become just as confident in this change
as any other change that we made to our codebase
but deliver it in sort of a tiny fraction of the
time and effort um that it would have taken to
write this entire thing from hand uh by hand and
review sort of every line of it. Um, and I think
one of the really exciting things about this is
is not just that this saved us, you know, a week,
a week's worth of human time, but knowing that we
could do this, it made us think differently about,
you know, our engineering, about what we
could do. And now suddenly when something
costs one day of time instead of two weeks,
you realize that you can go and make, you know,
much bigger features and much bigger changes.
uh sort of like the marginal cost of software
is lower and it lets you consume and build more
software. So I think that was the really exciting
thing about this is not just saving the time but
now kind of feeling like oh things that are going
to take two weeks let's just do them. It only
it's only going to take a day. Um and that's
that's kind of the exciting thing here. So to
leave you with the closing thoughts about how
to vibe code in prod responsibly. Uh be Claude's
PM. Ask not what Claude can do for you, but what
you can do for Claude. Focus your vibe coding
on the leaf nodes, not the core architecture and
underlying systems so that if there is tech debt,
it's contained and it's not in important areas.
Think about verifiability and how you can know
whether this change is correct without needing to
go read the code yourself. And finally, remember
the exponential. It's okay today if you don't vibe
code, but in a year or two, it's going to be a
huge huge disadvantage if you yourself are, you
know, demanding that you read every single line
of code uh or write every single line of code.
You're going to not be able to take advantage of
the newest wave of models that are able to produce
very very large chunks of work for you. Uh and you
are going to become the bottleneck if we don't get
good at this. So overall that is uh vibe coding
and prod responsibly. uh and I think this is going
to become one of the biggest challenges for the
software engineer for the software engineering
industry over the next few years. Thank you. And
I have uh plenty of time for questions. Yeah,
in the past we spent a lot of time dealing with
syntax problems or libraries or connections
amongst components of the code and that was how
we learn by coding like that. But how how do we
learn now? How do we become better by coders? How
do we know more to become better product managers
of the agent KI? Yeah, so the uh I think this is
a really interesting question and I think there
are reasons to be very worried about this and also
reasons to be very optimistic about this. I think
the the reason to be worried like you mentioned
is that you know we are not going to be there in
the struggle in the grind. Um I think that that
is actually okay. I've met uh you know some of my
professors in college would say like ah man like
coders today aren't as good because they never had
to write their assembly by hand. They don't really
feel the pain of you know how to make something
run really fast. Um I think the positive side of
this is that I have found that I'm able to learn
about things so much more quickly by using these
AI tools. A lot of times when I am coding with
Claude um I'll be reviewing the code and I'll say
hey Claude I've never seen this library before.
Tell me about it. like what is it? Why did you
choose it over another? And having sort of that
always there pair programmer. Um like again I
think what what's going to change is that people
that are lazy are not going to learn. They're
just going to glide by. But if you take the time
and you want to learn, there's all these amazing
resources and like Claude will help you understand
what it vibe coded for you. Um, the other thing
I will say is that for learning some of these
higher level things about what makes a project
go well, what is a feature that gets you product
market fit versus flops, we're going to be able
to take so many more shots on goal. I feel like
uh especially sort of like system engineers or
architects over it takes, you know, oftentimes
like two years to like make a big change in a
codebase and really kind of come to terms with
was that a good architecture decision or not. And
if we can collapse that time down to 6 months,
I think engineers that are investing in their
own time and trying to learn, they're going to be
able to, you know, learn from four times as many
lessons in the same amount of calendar time as
long as they're putting in the effort to trying.
Yeah. Going back to your pre-planning process,
uh, what's the balance between giving it too much
information and too little? Are you giving it a
full product requirement document? Is there kind
of a standardized template that you put together
before you actually move into VIP coding? Yeah.
Um, I think it depends a lot on what you care
about. Um, I would say that uh if it ranges
for there's for things where I don't really
care how it does it, I won't talk at all about
the implementation details. I'll just say these
are my requirements like this is what I want
at the end. There's other times where I know
the codebase well and I will go into much more
depth of like, hey, these are the classes you
should use to implement this logic. Look at this
example of a similar feature. Um, I'd say it all
comes down to sort of what you care about at the
end of the day. Um, I would say though that like
our models do best when you don't over constrain
them. So, um, you know, if you I wouldn't put too
much effort into creating sort of a very rigorous
uh, you know, format or anything. I would just,
you know, think about it as like a junior engineer
what you would give them in order to succeed.
So, oh, sorry if I went too loud. Uh, how did
you balance effectiveness and cyber security?
Like there were reports a couple months back
of like the top 10 vibecoded apps being super
vulnerable and a lot of important information
was released. Well, not released but proven to
be released and the person who did it wasn't
even like like a pro hacker and stuff and so
like there's that. How did you balance being able
to keep things secure even at a leaf node level
uh and then also being effective because
something can be effective but not secure? Yeah,
that's a great question and I think that all
comes down to this first point here of like
being Claude's PM and understanding enough about
the context to basically know what is dangerous,
know what's safe, and know where you should be
careful. And I think yeah, the the things that
uh get a lot of press about vibe coding are
people that have no business coding at all
uh doing these. And that's fine. That's
great for games. That's great for like
uh creativity and like having people be able
to create. But I think for production systems,
you need to know enough about like what questions
to ask to guide Claude in the right direction. And
for our internal case of this this example, um
it was something that's fully offline. And so
we knew there weren't any like there were uh we
were very very confident that there was like no
security problems that could happen into this.
Uh in our case it's like run in something that's
that's fully offline. Uh so this is more about
people you're mentioning as like have no business
and maybe I shouldn't have said it like that
but no business vibe coding in production for
an important system. I will say I will say that.
Yeah. But but if if we look at the numbers right
we Less than 0.5% of the world's population are
software developers and software is an amazing way
to scale ideas. So how do you think the products
need to change to make it easier for people to
v code and build software while also avoiding
some of the things that we run into with people
leaking API keys and things like that? That's a
really great question and I would be super excited
to see more products and frameworks emerge that
are kind of like provably correct. Uh, and maybe
what I mean by that is I'm sure people could build
some backend systems that the important off parts,
the payment parts are built for you and all you
have to do is sort of fill in the UI layer. Um,
and you know, you can vibe code that and it
basically gives you some nice fill-in-the-blank
sandboxes where to put your code. Um, I feel like
there's tons of things like that that could exist.
And maybe like the simplest example is like claude
artifacts where uh Claude can help you write,
you know, code that gets hosted right there um
in Claude AI to display. And of course that is
safe because it is very limited. There is no off
there is no payments. It's it's front end only.
But uh maybe that's a good like product idea
that someone should do here is is build some
way to make like a provably correct hosting system
that can have a backend that you know is safe no
matter what shenanigans happens on the front end.
But yeah, I hope people build good tools that are
complements to vibe coding. Hi. Um so for test
driven development, do you have any tips because
like I often see that cloud just splits out the
entire implementation and then writes test cases.
um sometimes they don't they fail and then I just
want you know I'm trying to prompt it to write the
test cases first but I also don't want to like you
know verify them by myself because I haven't seen
implementation yet so do you have an iteratable
approach that you know have you ever tried it
for yeah test driven development yeah yeah I I
definitely uh test driven development is very
very useful in vibe coding um as long as you can
understand what the test cases are even without
that it helps claude sort of be a little bit more
self consistent even if you yourself don't look
at the tests. Um, but a lot of times, uh, I'd say
it's easy for Claude to go down a rabbit hole of
writing tests that are like too implementation
specific. Um, when I'm trying to do this,
a lot of times I will encourage I will give Claude
examples of like, hey, just write three endto-end
tests and, you know, do the happy path, an
error case, and this other error case. Um,
and I'm kind of like very prescriptive about that.
I want the test to be like general and end to end.
And I think that helps make sure it's something
that I can understand um, and it's something that,
um, uh, that Claude can do without getting too in
the weeds. I'll also say a lot of times uh when
I'm vibe coding the only part of the code or at
least the first part of the code that I'll read
is the tests to make sure that you know if I
agree with the tests and the tests pass then
I feel pretty good about the code. Um that works
best if you can encourage Claude to write sort of
very minimalist endto-end tests. Thank you for the
very fascinating talk. Um, I also appreciate that
you've done what a lot of people haven't done and
tried to interpret one of the more peculiar lines
in Karpathy's original post, embrace exponentials.
So, I wonder if I could pin you down a little more
and say, how would I know if I've embraced the
exponentials? Like, what precisely means following
that advice? And and to maybe put it down a
little more in what I think it intends to mean,
it sort of maybe alludes to this, the models
will get better. Um, do you think there's
some legitimacy in saying just the fact that the
models will get better doesn't mean they'll get
better at every conceivable dimension we might be
imagining we hope they'll they'll be in. Yeah. Uh,
so yeah. So how do I embrace exponentials,
sir? Yeah, absolutely. So the uh I think you
got close with sort of the the quote of uh keep
assuming the models are going to get better,
but it's a step beyond that. the the idea of
the exponential is not just that they're going
to keep getting better, but they're going to get
better faster than we can possibly imagine. Um,
and that's kind of like when you you can kind of
see the shape of the dots here. It's it's not just
that it's getting steadily better, it's that it's
getting better and then it's it goes wild. Um,
I think the other funny quote I heard from this
this was a I think in uh Daario and Mike Kger's
talk is uh machines of loving grace is not science
fiction. It's a product roadmap. uh even though
it sounds like something that's very far out like
when you are on an exponential uh things get wild
very very fast and faster than you expect. Um, and
I think, you know, if you if you talk to someone
that was doing computers in the 90s, it's like,
okay, great. We have a couple kilobytes of RAM.
We have a couple more kilobytes of RAM. Uh, but
if you fast forward to where we are now, it's like
we have terabytes. And it's like, it's not just
that it got twice as good, it's that things got
millions of times better. And that's what happens
with exponentials over a course of 20 years. So,
we shouldn't think about 20 years from now is like
what happens if these models are twice as good.
We should think about what happens if these models
are a million times smarter and faster than they
are today, which is wild. Like I we can't even
think about what that means. In the same way that
someone working on computers in the 90s, I don't
think they could think about what would happen to
society if a computer was a million times faster
than what they were working with. But that's what
happened. And so that's what we mean by the
exponential is it's going to go bonkers. All
right. Yes. I got a couple well I got one question
but it it's kind it's kind of two parts. The first
part when it comes to via coding I have like two
different workflows. I have one where I'm in my
terminal and then I have one when I'm in VS code
or cursor. Um which which workflow do you use and
if you're using cloud code in the terminal how
often do you compact? Because what I find is
um my functions will get a new name as the longer
I vibe code or you know just things kind of go
off the rails the longer I go and if I compact
it still happens if I create like a document to
kind of guide it I still have to you know get it
back on track. Yeah. Yeah. Great question. Um I do
both. I often uh code with uh clawed code open in
my terminal in VS Code. Um, and I'd say that like
clawed code is doing most of the editing and I'm
kind of reviewing the code um as I go in uh in VS
Code, which you know is not true vibe coding in
the sense here. Uh, or maybe I'm reviewing just
the tests uh from it. Um, I like to compact
or just start a new session kind of whenever
I get clawed to a good stopping point where it
kind of feels like, okay, as a human programmer,
like when would I kind of stop and take a break
and maybe like go get lunch and then come back.
If I feel like I'm at that kind of stage, that's
like a good time to compact. So maybe I'll start
off with having Claude find all the relevant files
and and make a plan and then I'll say okay like
you know write all this into a document and then
I'll compact and that gets rid of 100k tokens that
it took to create that plan and find all these
files and boils it down to a few thousand tokens.
Hey uh so one question is following up uh his
previous question which is uh have you used
other tools along with cloud code to like increase
your speed a little bit more like running multiple
cloud codes together using git work trees and then
like sort of merging few things or stack PRs or
something like that. Is that something that you
like personally follow or would advise to? Second
question is um how do you like how do you very
structurally and like in a very nice engineering
like um like way approach a part of the codebase
that you're not very familiar with but you want to
like ship a PR in it really fast and you want to
do it in a really nice way and not wipe code it.
So yeah like what what are the what are your ways
of like using cloud code to help do both these
things? Yep. Uh, yeah. So, I definitely use clawed
code as well as cursor. Um, and I'd say typically
I'll like start things with clawed code and then
I'll use cursor to fix things up. Or if I was
like if I have very specific changes, if I know
exactly the change that I want to do to this file,
I'll just do it myself uh with cursor and sort of
target the exact lines that I know need to change.
Um the second part of your question was um oh
yeah like uh how to get spun up on a new part
of the codebase. Um before I start trying to write
the feature I use clawed code to help me explore
the codebase. So I might say like tell me where
in this codebase off happens or you know where in
this codebase something happens. Tell me similar
features to this and like have it tell me the file
names. Have it tell me the classes that I should
look at. Um, and then kind of use that to try to
build up a a mental picture to make sure that I
can do this and not vibe code. Make sure I can
still get like a a good sense of what's happening.
And then I go work on the feature with Claude. Uh,
thank you so much. I'll be still around
and can Miller and answer other questions.